# Rotation (Part 1)

# PROBLEM

*Explicit Requirements*:
- **Input**: An `array`
- **Output**: An array of the same size as `array` with each element in `array` moved one position to the left. The first element should be moved to the end of the array.
- This method should be non-destructive. It should return a new rotated array.

*Questions*:
- Is an empty array valid input?
- Can arrays contain elements of different data types?
- Must we do any input validation?

*Assumption*:
- We don't have to deal w/ zero-element arrays

*Implicit Requirements*:


*Edge Cases*:
- Rotating a single-element array: No effect is seen
- Rotating an 0-element array?


*Mental Models*:
1. Break into two arrays, w/ the first one containing the first element. Concatenate the first array onto the second darray.
2. Initialize a new array, and append elements from index 1 to the end. Once the end is reached, append the element at index 0.

# EXAMPLES/TESTS

rotate_array([7, 3, 5, 2, 9, 1]) == [3, 5, 2, 9, 1, 7]
rotate_array(['a', 'b', 'c']) == ['b', 'c', 'a']
rotate_array(['a']) == ['a']

x = [1, 2, 3, 4]
rotate_array(x) == [2, 3, 4, 1]   # => true
x == [1, 2, 3, 4]                 # => true

# DATA STRUCTURES

Input: An array
Output: A new array of the same size
Intermediate:
- Solution 1: A 1-element array and n-element array
- Solution 2: A new array to append elements onto

# ALGORITHM

## Solution 1

Given an `array`:
- Partition `array` into 2 arrays:
  1. One-element array containing only the first element
  2. Array containing the rest of the elements
- Assign a new array equal to the result of concatenating the first array onto the second array
- Return this new array

*Edge Case*
- Array containing 1-element
  - First partition = array w/ that element, 2nd partition = empty array

## Solution 2

Given an `array`:
- Initialize an empty array `rotated_array` = []
- Initialize an `index` to 1
- Iterate until the `index` is at least the length of `array`:
  - Append the element of `array` at `index` to `rotated_array`
  - Increment `index` by 1
- Push the first element of `array` onto `rotated_array`
- Return `rotated_array`

*Edge Case*
- Array containing 1-element
  - Will skip the loop and just append the 1st element

*Sub-Problems*:

### Extract the first element of an array into a 1-element array

Given an `array`:
- Create a slice of the array at index 0, of length 1
- Return that slice

### Extract all the elements from the array besides the first into a new array
Given an `array`:
- Create a slice of the array starting at index 1, upto the end of the array
- Return that slice

# CODE

*Implementation Details*:
- To create the partitions: Array#[<index>, <length>]
  - Array#[1..-1] will help us create the second partition
    - If the array is of length 1, that will just return an empty array