# Rotation (Part 3)

# PROBLEM

*Explicit Requirements*:
- **Input**: A positive integer `number` that might contain zeroes
- **Output**: The maximum rotation of `number`

*Questions*:
- What to do w/ multiple leading zeroes?

*Implicit Requirements*:
- Drop leading zero

*Edge Cases*:
- Number has only one digit
  - No rotation should occurs
- The maximum rotating results in a leading zero
  - Remove the leading zero
  - Note: We have to intermittently drop leading zeros


*Mental Models*:
1. Iterate from the length of the # to 1, rotating the last n digits continually. Recursive?

# EXAMPLES/TESTS

max_rotation(735291) == 321579
max_rotation(3) == 3
max_rotation(35) == 53
max_rotation(105) == 15 # the leading zero gets dropped
max_rotation(8_703_529_146) == 7_321_609_845

# DATA STRUCTURES



# ALGORITHM

# Solution 1 (Iterative)

Given a `number`:
- Initialize a `result` to `number`
- Iterate from the total # of digits in `number` to 1, tracking a counter `n`:
  - Reassign `result` to the result of rotating the `n` rightmost digits of itself (*#rotate_rightmost_digits*)
    - *Note*: This step will automatically remove any leading zeroes
- Return `result`

*Sub-Problems*:




# CODE

*Implementation Details*:

# Further Exploration

1. Possible algorithm:

Given a `number`:
- Convert the number into `digits` as characters
- Iterate from 0 to two less than the length of the number, tracking the `index`
  - Delete the element at `index` from `digits`, keeping track of it
  - Append this `element` to the end of `digits`
- Join the digits back into a string, and convert to a #

I do believe that the 3-part approach makes the problem easier to understand. Performing the entire max rotation in one concise method requires a bit of an intuitive leap.

I admire the first solution for its readability and clear conveyance of its functionality. In a situation where others, or yourself is often looking at the code, perhaps the first solution is better. I also think that breaking down problems into sub-problems is a good way of working through a problem. However, I generally prefer the second solution, for the following reasons:

- It does not convert back and forth between data types frequently like the first solution does. It converts the integer to an array of singular characters, performs the necessary operations, and then joins the array back to an integer. This avoids unnecessary complexity and computation.
- Because of the first reason, it preserves multiple zeroes until the end, as opposed to scrapping any intermeidate instances of multiple leading zeroes by midway converting strings to integer.
- It requires less overall code to perform.

2. The above solution preserves zeroes, because it does not convert back to an integer until the end.

Example: puts max_rotation(1005)