# 1000 Lights

# PROBLEM

*Explicit Requirements*:
- **Input**: The number of switches/lights, `n`
  - Lights/switches are numbered from 1..n
- **Output**: An array that identifies which lights are still on after performing `n` rounds of toggles:
  - Each round toggles all the lights that are multiples of the current round #
  - round 1 => toggle 1,2,3...n, round 2 => toggle 2,4,6...n ..., etc.

*Questions*:
- Can we assume n >= 1?

*Implicit Requirements*:
- The returned array should contain integers

*Edge Cases*:
- There are no lights
- There is only 1 light => turned off (no lights still on)


*Mental Models*:
1. Brute force (simulate turning lights on/off)
2. Mathematical (search for a mathematical pattern)
  - Appears to be perfect squares?

# EXAMPLES/TESTS

puts lights_on(5) == [1, 4]
puts lights_on(10) == [1, 4, 9]

# DATA STRUCTURES

- Input: An integer
- Output: An array
- Intermediate: We will use an array to represent the lights
  - If the light is included in the array, it is on
  - Otherwise, it is off
  - Premise: A light can either be included or excluded (Boolean representation). This is directly linked to the Boolean representation of a light being on or off
- Intermediate #2: We will use a hash to represent the lights
  - Keys = Positive Integers: Represent light #s
  - Values = Boolean value (true/false): Represent light on/off state
  - Hash can easily be filtered to only those who are on for the output

# ALGORITHM

## Solution 1: Brute force, using an array

Given the # of lights `n`:
- Initialize a `lights` variable with no lights (empty)
- Perform `n` rounds, tracking the current `round`
  - Toggle the lights using the `round` number **
- Return the `lights`

## Solution 2: Brute force, using a hash w/ Boolean values

Given the # of lights `n`
- Initialize a `lights` hash with no lights (empty)
- Perform `n` rounds, tracking the current `round`
  - Toggle the lights using the `round` number
- Return the keys from `lights` whose value is on (#select and #keys)

## Solution 3: Mathematical

Equals all the squares up to the round # . . . why?

*Sub-Problems*:

### Toggle lights for a particular round (array)

*High-level*: Toggle all the lights that are a multiple of that round

Given an array of `lights`, a `round` number, and the total # of lights `n`:
- Initialize a `light_to_toggle` to be equal to the `round` #
- Until the `light_to_toggle` is greater than # of lights `n`:
  - If `lights` does not include `light_to_toggle`, append it to `lights`
  - Otherwise, delete `light_to_toggle` from lights (*Array#delete*)
    - Note: We can delete any instances of `light_to_toggle`, since each light has a unique numerical identifier
  - Increment the `light_to_toggle` by `round` to get the next multiple

# CODE

*Implementation Details*:
- Array#delete
- #upto

# Further Exploration

1. Perfect squares have an odd number of factors (including 1), and all other integers have an even number of factors. Why is that?
  - If we want to go one-level further, this can be proved by the following reasoning:
    - One of the factors in the perfect squares must be its square root. This factor is only included once. All other factors must have a counterpart. 
    - For all non-perfect squares, a counterpart factor must be exist for any factor, or else would be a perfect square.

The reasoning for every light being a perfect square can be explained as follows:
- The nth light is toggled upon any factor of n (including 1 and n) -- e.g. 9 is toggled by 1, 3, and 9
- If n is a perfect square, it must have an odd number of factors. Otherwise, n must have an even number of factors.
- If a light is toggled an odd number of times, starting off, it will end up on. The reverse is true for an even number number of times.
- Since only perfect squares have odd factors, and the factor count determines the toggle count, only perfect square lights will be on.

[One level deeper] Why do perfect squares have an odd numbers of factors, and why do all other whole numbers have an even number of factors?
- One way we can think about this is considering the idea that a factor may or may not have a counterpart factor.
- For example, 6's factors are 1, 2, 3, and 6. 1 and 6 are counterparts, and so are 2 and 3.
- If a number is a perfect square, it is guaranteed to have exactly one factor whose counterpart is itself: the square root. e.g. 16 = 1, 2, 4, 8, 16.
- So for all numbers, factors come in pairs of twos, but perfect squares have a factor that is only listed once.