# Group Anagrams

# PROBLEM

*Explicit Requirements*:
- **Input**: An array of `words`
- **Output**: Groups of words that are anagrams
- *Definition*: Anagrams are words that have the same exact letters in them but in a different order

*Questions*:
- Does the method itself have to output the words?
- Can empty strings be included in the given words? If so, is an empty string the anagram of an empty string?
- Can whitespace be included in the string?
- Must all the words in the input be of the same length?
- Can the input array contain duplicate words? If so, should the output array contain duplicates?

*Notes*:
- Anagram groups are mutually exclusive. The elements in one anagram group will not overlap with the elements in another anagram group.
- Once an anagram group is formed, we no longer have to worry about the words in that group, since we know that no other groups will contain those words. 

*Implicit Requirements*:
- [Examples] Only lowercase, alphabetic strings without whitespace can be included in the input
- We don't have to deal w/ case-sensitivity
- Anagram groups must have at least 2 words
- I'm not going to make thee assumption that the input words must be the same length. My solution will be able to deal with differently-lengthed words.

*Edge Cases*:
- Comparing 2 words of different sizes
- The input list of words contains no words

*Mental Models*:
1. Find all anagram groups for each word, and then delete duplicate groups.
2. Iterate over each word (that isn't yet in an anagramm group), and find all anagrams for that word.

# EXAMPLES/TESTS

words =  ['demo', 'none', 'tied', 'evil', 'dome', 'mode', 'live',
          'fowl', 'veil', 'wolf', 'diet', 'vile', 'edit', 'tide',
          'flow', 'neon']

Output:

["demo", "dome", "mode"]
["neon", "none"]
#(etc)

# DATA STRUCTURES

- Input: An array of words
- Intermediate: An array to contain an anagram group
- Return value: Nested array
- Output: Print each sub-array w/ #p

# ALGORITHM

## Solution 1: Without sorting

Given a list of `words`:
- Initialize an empty array `groups`
- For each `word` in `words`:
  - If the `word` is not yet included in the anagram `groups`:
    - Find all the `anagrams` of `word` in `words` (including `word`)
    - If the list of `anagrams` found has a size of at least 2:
      - Append the `anagrams` list onto the `groups`
  - Otherwise, skip over that word (it's already been accounted for)

## Solution 2: Accumulate anagram lists in a hash

Given a list of `words`:
- Initialize an empty hash `groups`:
- For each `word` in `words`:
  - Create a sorted version of `word`, called `key`
  - If this sorted version is not yet included in the hash:
    - Add `key` as a key w/ a 1-element array containing `word`
  - If it is already included in the hash:
    - Add the `word` to the correct `key`
- Return all the 2+ element arrays from the values of `groups`

*Why does this work*? Because each key composes a unique set of characters. We find all the words that are an anagram with the initial word to create the key by comparing the sorted version of that word to the already-created key. Any words we add to a particular key are simply the same words with their characters in a different order. That is the definition of an anagram -- so we are essentially adding any anagrams to the key.

*Sub-Problems*:

### Find all the anagrams of a word

Given a `word` and a list of `words`:
- Select elements from `words` that constitute an anagram with `word`

#### Determine if 2 words are anagrams (Solution 1)

Given 2 words, `word1` and `word2`:
- Break `word1` and `word2` into characters
- If `word1` and `word2` are the same length AND all characters in `word1` are included in the characters of `word2` (*#all*):
  - Return true
  - Otherwise return false

*Note*: We need to check if the length of the words are equal, because one word might include all characters from the other, but also include EXTRA characters.

#### Determine if 2 words are anagrams (Solution 2)

Given 2 words, `word1` and `word2`:
- Break `word1` and `word2` into characters
- Sort the characters
- Determine if the sorted character arrays are equal

# CODE

*Implementation Details*:
- #p will allow us to print each sub-array w/ bracket format []
- #all
- #include?
- #flatten to flatten the groups array
- Array#==: Cares about sorted order