## Letter Swap

## PROBLEM

Given a string of words separated by spaces, write a method that takes this string of words and returns a string in which the first and last letters of every word are swapped.

*Explicit Requirements*:
- **Input**: A string of _words_ separated by spaces
- **Output**: A new string containing _words_, but with the first and last letter of every word in _words_ in swapped

*Assumptions*:
- Every word contains >= 1 letter
- The string always contains at least one word
- The string contains only words and spaces

*Implicit Requirements*:
- The length of the ouput string will equal the length of the input string
- Case is preserved during the swapping

*Mental Models*:
1. Split into words => Peform swap for each word => Rejoin words

## EXAMPLES/TESTS

swap('Oh what a wonderful day it is') == 'hO thaw a londerfuw yad ti si'
swap('Abcde') == 'ebcdA'
swap('a') == 'a'

## DATA STRUCTURES

We will use an array to store the words. This will help us break our problem
down into individual swapping sub-problems.

## ALGORITHM

Given a string _words_:

- Split words into an array, delimitted by ' '
- Compute a new array in which each word in the previous array has its first and
last letter swapped
- Join the words into a string, separated by ' '
- Return that string

*Sub-Problems*:

# -----------------------
# PROBLEM

Swap the first and last letter in an individual word.

- Input: a _word_ string
- Output: _word_ with its first and last letter swapped

# EXAMPLES

swap_word('a') == 'a'
swap_word('abc) == 'cba'

# ALGORITHM

# -----------------------

- Store the first character in word in _temp_
- Set the first character of the word to the last character of the word
- Set the last character of the word to the temporary variable _temp_

## CODE

*Implementation Details*:
- We can retrieve the first & last characters using element reference
- We can directly assign chracters to a string using #[] =

## Further Exploration

swap_first_last_chracters(word[0], word[-1])

def swap_first_last_characters(a, b)
  a, b = b, a
end

The method will not work as intended, for two reasons:

1. `a` and `b` do not directly reference the characters stored at the first index of word and last index of word. This is because the elements which `a` and `b` are assigned to, word[0] and word[-1], merely return substring **copies** of the characters at the given indices. This can be observed by checking out the documentation for `String#[]`: https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/String.html#method-i-5B-5D, or experimenting in irb.
2. Even if `a` and `b` somehow *did* store direct references to the characters in `word`, the characters are not mutated directly in `swap_first_last_characters`. The variables `a` and `b` are merely reassigned to different objects. The objects themselves are not changed.

We need to pass `word` directly into `swap_first_last_characters` to have any chance at mutating `word`.

Point 1 was an important clarification for me, because I had originally assumed that element reference in strings and arrays work in a similar way in Ruby. But in reality `String#[]` returns a new object, while `Array#[]` returns the object at that index directly. `String#[]=` is where the mutation magic happens.