## Alphabetical Numbers

## PROBLEM

Write a method that takes an Array of Integers between 0 and 19, and returns an Array of those Integers sorted based on the English word for each number.

*Explicit Requirements*:
- **Input**: An array of _integers_ in the range [0, 19] (inclusive)
- **Output**: The integers sorted according to their English word representation

*Questions*:
- Does the input array have to include every integer in [0, 19]? Can it just include some of them?
- Do we have to build our own sorting method, or can we use a pre-built one?
- How will I convert integers to their English equivalent?

*Implicit Requirements*:
- The output array contains the original integers (not their string representation)

*Assumptions*:
- We can use a built-in sorting method

*Mental Models*:
1. Store a hash w/ the numbers & their corresponding English words. Sort the array by the corresponding English words.

## EXAMPLES/TESTS

alphabetic_number_sort((0..19).to_a) == [
  8, 18, 11, 15, 5, 4, 14, 9, 19, 1, 7, 17,
  6, 16, 10, 13, 3, 12, 2, 0
]

## DATA STRUCTURES

We will use an array to contain the associated English words for each number, and sort accordingly. 

## ALGORITHM

Given an array of _integers_ in [0, 19]:

- Store an array with each element being the English word associated with a given index
- Sort _integers_ by accessing its corresponding English word
- Return the array resulting from the sort

*Sub-Problems*:

Sort _integers_ by accessing its corresponding English word.

For each pair of integer in _integers_:
- Retrieve those integer's corresponding English word
- Compare those 2 English words alphabetically
- If the first word > second word, they are out of order => switch order

## CODE

*Implementation Details*:
- Array#sort will be helpful in sorting the array (as opposed to manually manipulating the array)